---
title: <span style="color:#75B9D4">Weak lensing signal of Voronoi-selected galaxy clusters [un]detected by red-sequence algorithm</span>
collection: talks
type: "Conference talk"
permalink: /talks/2016-04-27-talk-2
venue: "GRACO III - CBPF"
date: 2016-04-27
location: "Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil"
---

[<span style="color:blue"> </span>](/talks/2016-04-27-talk-2)

### Abstract

The detection and the mass measurements of galaxy clusters are essential steps to understand the material content of the universe and its implications for cosmology. Some of the most popular methods to find clusters rely on the assumption that all such objects are formed by an agglomeration! of red galaxies (a red sequence), i.e., a high regular population of early-type (elliptical and lenticular) galaxies. These red sequence methods, however, will have diminished performance for clusters with a large blue-to-red fraction of galaxies and lacking the red-sequence feature. The non-red sequence clusters are expected to be a small fraction of the total number of clusters, but the derived cosmological parameters may be significantly biased if this selection effect is not taken into account. To quantify this selection effect we measured the stacked weak lensing signal of galaxy clusters selected with the Voronoi-Tesselation algorithm (Soares-Santos et al. 2011) - a color independent cluster finding -, but undetected by a red sequence based method, Redmapper (Rykoff et al. 2012). The clusters were identified on the Stripe 82 region of Sloan Digital Sky Survey, where both Voronoi-Tesselation and Redmapper cluster catalogs overlap. We performed a membership matching of the catalogs and we identified 30 unmatched clusters. We measured the weak lensing signal for this sample and the preliminary results shows that it might be possible these clusters are real. However, we will analyse them in details to confirm or not if they are in fact real clusters. 