---
title: <span style="color:#75B9D4">Density profiles of galaxy clusters in the CFHT Stripe 82 survey from weak gravitational lensing</span>
collection: talks
type: "Conference talk"
permalink: /talks/2016-07-14-talk-1
venue: "GR21 - Columbia University"
date: 2016-07-14
location: "New York, NY, USA"
---

[<span style="color:blue"> </span>](/talks/2016-07-14-talk-1)

### Abstract

Galaxy clusters are important tools to study the matter distribution in the Universe. The only direct mass estimator that can be constructed from this data alone is Weak Lensing (WL), which also has the advantage of being insensitive to the dynamical state of the cluster and is a direct probe of the total mass. To perform WL measurements a high quality imaging survey is mandatory, which is the case of CFHT Stripe 82 (CS82) survey. The CS82 survey covered an area of ~170 square degrees on Stripe 82 region in the i-band to a depth of mag AB∼24 and mean seeing of ∼0.6. In this work we focus on the WL measurements - stacking the tangential shear profile - around galaxy clusters, which allows one to obtain high signal-to-noise profiles even for low mass clusters. In our analysis, the shear measurements of galaxies were computed with the Lensfit code and the cluster identification was made using the redMaPPer algorithm. We fit the derived mean radial profiles by models! such as the Navarro-Frenk-White to obtain the mass in each bin and then fit a mass-observable relation. We are also interested in discriminating different theoretical models using these data as well as assessing biases arising from the fact that a bin in the observable combines clusters of different masses with very different numbers. Finally, we propose a new method to combine the weak lensing signal of clusters without any binning, yielding directly a mass-observable relation.
